what do i want to achieve with this project?

i require a working device that will allow me to store and access notes, which
may have metadata associated with them.

so far the architecture has been based around a literal mapping from user
requirements to code artefacts: view_a_note, and edit_a_note. this style has led
to the creation of the 'reopenable' decorator, which has allowed us to write a
ReactJS component as a series of transformations to a component: a base
component is passed down through a chain of render decorators, each of which
return a new render function which can call the preceding render function and
modify the rendered elements. although some aspects of the organisational
consequences of this architecture may be useful, at first attempt it is
difficult to develop each feature in a flexible way: each transformation in a
sequence of transformations of elements can be highly coupled with the
transformations to either side of it, and a random ordering of transforms is not
guaranteed to work.

that said, i am still interested in using this project as an opportunity to
research software architecture, because i feel there are fundamental issues with
the way we build software today -- although the root causes of these issues are
not necessarily architectural.

perhaps the answer is not that the software and the requirements should be
engineered as 'parallel', but that they should be engineered as perpendicular...

the primary software artefact is 'code': some text which i can give to a
computer and have it produce some output. we write code / build software because
we have requirements. requirements are subject to change, and often in short
timespans (weeks, say), and can exhibit different types of change -- enhancement
(new feature built on top of existing feature), removal. the goal of software
engineering is to write code that fulfils our requirements in such a way that
any change in the requirements can be met with the simplest/easiest/smallest/???
change in the code.

this could be one of the motivations behind the initial architechure: provide a
literal mapping between the requirements and the code. although having a mapping
can be very useful, enforcing this mapping as the direct way of organising the
code and requirements between units of code makes it difficult to achieve code
that is easily malleable, and accumulates cruft -- the history is best left to
git.

so, next steps... the existing code is pretty good: there's some cool wacky
metaprogramming i can put in a module for lols, and the actual [device](#device)
logic can be easily extracted into more appropriately structured modules,
although i have now to think about what structure provides the required
requirement flexibility (reqflex?)

---

looking at the folder structure i think the current layout has captured the
roadmap pretty well, which is great. it might still be possible to leverage this
somehow, without resorting to fragile metaprogramming.

it is more likely i am overthinking this, and a basic component based architecture will do for now.

---

## footnotes

<a name="device">device</a>: you may have notice that i've described the
software as a device twice now. i feel like it makes more sense from a user
perspective than product/application/app.
